# 2019-06-14 Meeting (Friday 1400 UTC)

## Attendees intro and interest

* Daniel Wallace: leading the working group, has worked on salt-cloud in the past.
* Ben Gridley: interested in using salt-cloud to interact with AWS
* Peter Norton: interested in improving the usability of salt-cloud
* Tyler Johnson: working for saltstack on core
* Swaminathan: certs in aws and salt and works with vmware too. Exp. with chef and interested in helping improve salt-cloud.
* Cedric Bosdonnat: Works for SUSE and contributes to libvirt. Improve salt's libvirt support.

* Nick Garber (attended, intro not made)

## Scope and goals for this incarnation of the working group

Daniel:

The working group has a 6 month remit. The primary for this cycle is
to document what needs to be in a salt cloud provider. 

Goals:
* Standardize and document that salt-cloud drivers as being
  specifically for launching servers.

    * Document the above primary use case as being primary, and
      secondary use cases (e.g. DO networking actions) as being
      secondary/optional, so future implementors of cloud drivers know
      what needs to be present to provide as "complete" an
      implementation as any other.
   
    * The most complete drivers are currently AWS and DO. Use those as
      our baseline to document our standard.
   
    * For drivers that don't meet our standards, document that they
      are incomplete, and document why they are
      incomplete/broken/etc. and what needs to be done to fix it.
   
    * Specify tests that should be runnable for drivers.

* Move salt-cloud to using the sls renderer instead of maps.

    * Map files are plain yaml that needs to be rendered out, and
      which aren't used in any other part of salt, so by leveraging
      the state/sls renderer, maps and potentially profiles etc. could
      be made easier to manage.
   
* Move salt-cloud out of salt via fractus

    * Cloud providers release features on a cadence that is faster
      than salt releases. Salt-cloud or fractus are just runners, so
      could be added to the runner path to be loaded.

    * AWS specifically provides botocore and boto3 which is in-sync
      with their API. To add new features, it should be as simple as
      installing the appropriate version of boto3 with the new
      feature, and writing an action that passes arguments to the
      API. This should make it possible to add more features to
      cloud/fractus quickly - much faster than the salt release cycle.


The community github will be used to create and track issues.

### Actions from this meeting

* Document requirements for a cloud driver
    * Tickets created for the group for going through the cloud
      drivers and determining what needs to be done to meet the 
      requirements. Due Date: 2019-06-21
   
* Blog post by 2019-07-12 by Daniel describing the use of SLS for
  replacing maps in cloud.

### Other notes/topics
* Observation from Cedric re: libvirt, there may be an opportunity to
  distinguish cloud providers that have a complete
  implementation/API/support in cloud, from lower-level cloudish APIs
  like libvirt that e.g. don't handle OS images, etc. Also, libvirt
  code is distributed in 2 places in the code. It's desirable to 
  consolidate this.
  
* Type annotations and type checking was discussued. Salt isn't going
  to be completely past python 2.7 and python 3.4 until the magnesium
  (atomic weight 12) or aluminum (13) release, so they're a desirable
  goal but will be brought in for work when they don't introduce
  incompatibility with the test suite (using in-line syntax).

* There was an idea presented by Daniel about using possible future
  features in slots in order to make cloud actions idempotent.
  
* Kubernetes was discussed, not clear how it would/could fit in with
  the cloud at this point.
