# 2019-12-12 Meeting

## Attendees

* Megan Wilhite
* Tom Hatch
* Tommy Chong

## Meeting Details

Heist Update
 - Heist was officially announced at SaltConf and there was a lot of excitment!
 - We had a sprint focused on heist and a couple of issues were logged that
   we will need to clean up. https://github.com/saltstack/heist/issues
 - Will need to do a new release with current fixes and fixes to resolve
   some of these issues. This will be done either this week or next.

Salt-SSH Post Neon
 - We are ramping up to get a RC out for neon by the first part of January.
   Once neon is out, the ssh working group will need to shift a lot of focus
   to the work that needs to be done to deprecate python2 for salt-ssh. The
   issues to track this work are located here:
     https://github.com/saltstack/community/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3ASalt-SSH

Pop EcoSystem Update from Tom
 - updates to rend to make it more asynchronous
 - currently working on a secrete store system refered to as takara
 - will also need to do a release of idem and rend soon.
