# 2020-11-12 meeting

## Attendees

- Sage Robins
- Wayne Werner
- Alyssa Rock

## Meeting details

### Announcements

- The next Docs clinic will be held November 19 and will be led by Alyssa.
- Normally the next Docs working group meeting would be November 26, but it will
  be canceled this day because of the U.S. Thanksgiving. Therefore, the next
  working group will be December 10.

### Quick report on SaltConf

- The Docs breakout session was led by Derek, had about 30 attendees, and
  included attendees from the U.S., Canada, the Netherlands, Sweden, Spain,
  and the Phillipines.
- We announced our working group project to make Alan Cugler's Salt training
  manual available to the larger community, making them the new core Salt docs.

### Converting the Salt training manual

- Discussion points and tasks:
  - **File availability** - The current file is a Google Doc that needs to have
    some work done on it before it can be made accessible to people working on
    the project.
    - Action item: Alyssa will commit to prepping the Google Doc for the
      community by end of next week.
  - **Repo creation** - We intend to create a new repo that is no longer inside
    the core Salt repo for now.
    - Action item: Sage will let the Core Salt team know about this plan in the
      weekly team meeting.
    - Action item: Alyssa and Derek will decide on a name for the repo and then
      will work with Sage to get the repo set up and configured.
  - **Conversion task project management** - We'll manage the project on a
    GitHub project board in the new repo. We'll carve up the Google Doc into
    actionable tickets and add them to the project.
  - **Project contribution guides and community rollout** - We'll eventually
    create a guide about how to contribute to the project. When we're closer to
    the point that we're ready to invite the community to help, we'll need to
    work out a plan to roll out the project to the community and get
    participation. We'll likely begin with soft start in a docs clinic and then
    have an official rollout in a community docs jam.
- In terms of timing for the project, we likely will spend this release cycle
  preparing to launch this program officially in the next release cycle.

### Working group logistics

- Near the end of the month, Sage hopes to provide us with a template to create
  a working group charter that provides details like our captain, our meeting
  times, our mission, our current project, our communication plans, etc.
- Be aware that our Zoom link for this meeting is likely to change.

### Next Docs clinic

- Alyssa asked for help picking the best way to spend her time in the next docs
  clinic. We decided she should work on consolidating the contributing guides.

### Next docs working group meeting: December 10

Future:
- We created this issue about adding
  [Add rstcheck to pre-commit](https://github.com/saltstack/salt/issues/58668)
  that would be good to discuss
