# 2020-10-15 meeting

## Attendees

* Derek Ardolf
* Sage Robins
* Gareth Greenaway
* Alyssa Rock

## Meeting details

### Dates of note

- The next Docs clinic will be held October 22 and will be led by Alyssa.
- Normally the next Docs working group meeting would be October 29, but it will
  be canceled this day because of SaltConf. Therefore, the next working group
  will be November 12.

### Meeting and community event scheduling

- The docs team will alternate between holding Docs working group meetings and
  docs clinics every Thursday at 2-3 p.m. Mountain time.

### Report on the October 7 documentation jam

- Cassandra's summary of the day: We had lots of good conversations, acquired at
  least one new contributor, and  got some momentum around improving our
  documentation.
- We have a new Salt Documentation YouTube channel that includes [Erin Mckeans's keynote](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-zVgjhsFv1U&list=PL9svBjLDUl_9uKyNTiBHjO6HDmquR83Ja).
- Lessons learned:
  - We might try to hold a docs jam during every release. If so, we'll try to
    schedule it for mid-release rather than end-of-release. Perhaps after a
    point release.
  - It was excellent having it on the Twitch stream, as we were able to get good
    conversations going around contributing to docs, and getting into open
    source.
  - We still need to improve our communications with the community: announcing
    on social media, updating the community on times for clinics, working group,
    etc.

### Engaging the community

- We brainstormed ideas to get more community engagement in the Docs working
  group:
  - Maybe sponsor a table for discussion at SaltConf
  - Reach out to community members personally
  - Consider having a working group captain rotation process
  - Have a clearly defined goal or project that will attract community members
    and give them a way to contribute
- Per this last idea, we brainstormed some possible initiatives we could work on
  that could attract new users, such as:
  - A migration project to convert SaltStack training materials to the open docs.
  - Creating videos of tutorials and how-tos with members of the community in
    which they talk about how they use Salt. "There's better ways to Salt
    besides running `command.run`."
- Action item: Alyssa committed to getting this approved with Alex. If he
  approves, we might write up the project initiative details.

### Docs project management

- Sage shared some of her plans for a project management tool for docs and other
  open-source projects. She's currently considering Pivotal Labs and Gitlab
  boards since we can likely expose those to the community.

### Next docs working group meeting: November 12

Future:
- We created this issue about adding
  [Add rstcheck to pre-commit](https://github.com/saltstack/salt/issues/58668)
  that would be good to discuss
