# 2020-07-23 Meeting

## Attendees

* Derek Ardolf
* Sage Robins
* Cassandra Faris
* Gareth Greenway
* Alyssa Rock
* Chad McMarrow
* Ashley Newton
* Wayne Werner

## Meeting Details

### Change of personnel and process

- Alan Cugler is stepping down as working group captain and Derek is taking over
  as captain going forward.
- We’re going to take notes of working group meetings and we’ll post it on our
  docs hub. Alyssa will take this task for this cycle.

### First docs clinic

- These clinics will be modeled after the testing clinics and are designed to
  help community members overcome certain barriers to documentation contribution.
- Our first one is tentatively August 19.
- The first one will tentatively focus on getting yourself ready to contribute
  to the documentation (how to set up your GPG signing, learn how to find the
  core docs in the project vs. the module docs).
- We had a discussion about how best to present and record the meeting.
- Action items:
  - Cassandra has an action item to begin researching tips and tricks for a Best
    Practices Twitch guide.

### Docs jam planning

- Docs jam full day event: September 9.
- We’re going to start by asking doc jam participants to take an open-ended
  survey about how they use salt modules and invite them to share use case
  scenarios. We might possibly use this data to add use case scenarios to the
  module documentation.
- Participants will have 3 pathways to choose from for the docs jam:
  - Module case studies - Participants write brief blurbs about how they use
    certain modules in their environment.
  - Issue creation - Participants create issues based on problems in the
    documentation they’ve noticed. We’ll provide issue writing guidance.
  - Issue triage - Participants can work on documentation issues.
- Logistics and action items
  - We’ll need 4 Zoom leaders at a given time. 1 in the main zoom room to help
    new participants get started and 1 for each pathway, which will be a
    separate breakout room.
  - Alyssa will create the first draft of the preparatory documentation
  - Sage will create an issues template and start by posting it to the docs-hub

### Next docs working group meeting: August 6

- We’ll identify a list of good first-time issues for new contributors.
- We’ll also identify a list of modules we would love to get use-cases for.
- We’ll continue reviewing logistics and action items for the first docs clinics and the docs jam.
