# 2020-08-06 Meeting

## Attendees

* Derek Ardolf
* Sage Robins
* Cassandra Faris
* Bryce Larson
* Alyssa Rock
* Chad McMarrow
* Alan Cugler
* Wayne Werner

## Meeting Details

### Change to upcoming docs clinic and docs jam dates

- The first docs clinic will be held September 30.
- The full day documentation jam will be held October 7 from 8-5 MDT.

### First docs clinic planning

- These clinics will be modeled after the testing clinics and are designed to
  help community members overcome certain barriers to documentation contribution.
- The first docs clinic will cover how to set up GPG signing and other necessary
  prerequisites for contributing to the docs.
- Action items:
  - Cassandra and Wayne will work with Derek on the logistics of Twitch and
    YouTube for the docs clinics.
  - Derek will run a dry run of the first docs testing clinic with internal
    SaltStack employees to figure out how long the process might take.

### Docs jam planning

- Docs jam full day event: September 9.
- Sage created a document of the Salt Modules Core to Salt for reference.
- Alyssa created a rough draft for the docs jam participant guide and we
  discussed how to fill some of the logistical gaps in that document.
- In our last working group meeting, we talked about the possibility of
  distributing a survey to get a sense of which modules are used most
  frequently. We've found that perhaps this won't be logistically possible and
  will instead create an issue template for submitting case studies (examples).
- Action items:
  - Cassandra will investigate what swag packages we'll give to docs jam
    participants.
  - Sage will create the rough draft for the case study issue template.
  - Alyssa will continue fleshing out the rough draft for the docs jam
    participants guide. She'll refer to the port jam guide and incorporate good
    elements from that guide into this one.

### Miscellaneous documentation issues

- We checked in on the initiative to improve the contributor's guide.
- We also checked in on the initiative to skip test suite for PRs that are
  docs-only changes.
- We also talked about the initiative to convert the Salt docs to the Material
  theme and how to handle versioning.

### Next docs working group meeting: August 20

- We’ll identify a list of good first-time issues for new contributors.
- We’ll also identify a list of modules we would love to get use-cases for.
- We’ll continue reviewing logistics and action items for the first docs clinics
  and the docs jam.
