# 2020-09-17 meeting

## Attendees

* Derek Ardolf
* Casandra Faris
* Gareth Greenaway
* Ashley Newton
* Dave Boucha
* Alyssa Rock

## Meeting details

### Dates of note

- The first docs clinic will be held September 30.
- The full day documentation jam will be held October 7 from 8-5 MDT.
- The next Docs working group meeting is October 1.

### First documentation clinic

- The internal docs clinic is scheduled for next week.
- For the internal docs jam, we want to ensure that Derek, Cassandra, Alyssa,
  and at least one core member is present.
- Content of the first docs jam:
  - Walk throguh the prerequisites and links for how to learn more:
    - How to set up Git and GitHub
    - How to set up GPG signing
  - How to find the core documentation and how to find the module documentation
    in the docstrings
  - How to open a docs issue
  - How to make a change through Github
  - How to make a change in the repo and submit a PR
- Action items:
  - Alyssa will begin a draft of how to write a good docs issue for this sprint.

### Revise the contributing guide

- Derek would like to have the contributing guide in a good state prior to the
  first community docs clinic or at least before the documentation jam.
- We have various guides, such as:
  - [Contributing Guide (Salt Docs)](https://docs.saltstack.com/en/latest/topics/development/contributing.html)
  - [Contributing Guide (GitHub)](https://github.com/saltstack/salt/blob/master/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md)

### Docs jam planning

- The pieces that we need to have in place for the docs jam:
  - First documentation clinic how-to video and supporting guides
  - Docs jam agenda (already complete)
  - Schedule for the docs jam Zoom room hosts
- Erin McKean from the Google open source advocacy division will speak at the
  docs jam. Alyssa will get an official title and job description from her.

### Supporting documentation for Idem and other Salt-related open source projects

- Derek and Dave Boucha will meet to brainstorm ideas for ensuring that the
  documentation for these projects starts out moving in the right direction. We
  want to ensure that the standards and habits that develop early on are
  productive and healthy.

### Salt Glossary and The Glossarist

- Alyssa is exploring the idea of creating a Salt Glossary using the open source
  tool The Glossarist. It can output into JSON format among other formats.

### Next docs working group meeting: October 1
