# 2020-12-10 Meeting

## Attendees

- Derek Ardolf
- Sage Robins
- Wayne Werner
- Alyssa Rock

## Meeting Details

### Announcements

- The next Docs clinic will be held December 17 and will be led by Derek.
- Normally the next Docs working group meeting would be December 24, but it will
  be canceled this day because of the holidays. The December 31 Docs clinic will
  also be canceled.
- The next Docs working group will be held January 7, 2021.

### Converting the Salt User Guide

- Decisions made:
  - We will call this guide the Salt User Guide and store it in an open source
    repo named `salt-user-guide` on GitLab.
- Action items:
  - Alyssa will follow up with Alan to learn more about the modular version of
    this guide and work on converting it into a Google Doc that is shareable
    with the community.
  - Alyssa will also ask Alan to commit to a date after which he will stop
    editing the guide and start making his edits in the repo.
  - Derek will create the repo in Gitlab and create the first draft of the
    README and Contributing guide. He'll also set up pre-commit and any issues
    and MR templates. The repo will have no license to start.
  - Derek will follow up with Janae and other stakeholders about creating a
    Saltproject branding repository.
  - Derek will follow up with Nate about improvements to the Material theme.
  - **File availability** - The current file is a Google Doc that needs to have
    some work done on it before it can be made accessible to people working on
    the project. Alyssa found out from Alan that he already has a modular
    version of this document we can use. He's also planning to make some
    improvements to this document in December.
  - **Repo creation** - Status update on the new repo from Sage and Derek.
- Future action items:
  - **Conversion task project management** - We'll carve up the Google Doc into
    actionable tickets and add them to the repo.
  - **Project contribution guides and community rollout** - We'll eventually
    create a guide about how to contribute to the project. When we're closer to
    the point that we're ready to invite the community to help, we'll need to
    work out a plan to roll out the project to the community and get
    participation. We'll likely begin with soft start in a docs clinic and then
    have an official rollout in a community docs jam.

### Next docs working group meeting: January 7, 2021

Future:
- We created this issue about adding
  [Add rstcheck to pre-commit](https://github.com/saltstack/salt/issues/58668)
  that would be good to discuss
- Where should the Twitch guide and other internal-ish documentation go?
- Creation of a Saltproject branding repository.
