# 2020-10-01 meeting

## Attendees

* Derek Ardolf
* Cassandra Faris
* Sage Robins
* Ashley Newton
* Alyssa Rock

## Meeting details

### Dates of note

- The full day documentation jam will be held October 7 from 8-5 MDT.
- The next Docs working group meeting is October 15.

### First documentation clinic

- Report and lessons learned from the first documentation clinic that was held
  September 30:
  - Everything went really well and this video will be a great resource to
    future docs contributors.
  - The docs clinic identified some potential difficulties that come from using
    pre-commit that we've made the project managers aware of for Aluminum.
- Next steps for future documentation clinics:
  - In terms of future content, our primary purpose will be to help community
    members to attend if they want help working through documentation-related
    issues. We could also have fall-back content if people don't have specific
    issues to work through.
  - The fall-back content could be a mix of triage and select issues to work
    through live. Derek might want to tackle the issue of (undocumented master
    and minion configurations)[https://github.com/saltstack/salt/issues/58112]
    in future clinics.
  - We might even consider doing a joint docs and test clinic!
  - We're considering holding these clinics once a month or every other week.

### Supporting documentation for Idem and other Salt-related open source projects

- We talked about the need for standardization around modules, especially those
  that are core to Salt. We need to standardize the docstrings too.
- Derek and Dave Boucha developed a layout and plan for pop-seed. This project
  provides the skeleton of a new Pop or Idem project, including the
  supporting documentation.

### Docs jam planning

- The pieces that we need to have in place for the docs jam:
  - First documentation clinic how-to video and supporting guides (status: needs
    to be posted, but mostly complete)
  - Docs jam agenda (status: complete)
  - Schedule for the docs jam Zoom room hosts
- Cassandra will schedule a follow up planning meeting to work through
  logistics.

### Next docs working group meeting: October 15

Future items of discussion:

- Sage will discuss her plan for a project management tool for docs and other
  open-source projects.
