# 2020-09-03 meeting

## Attendees

* Derek Ardolf
* Cassandra Faris
* Gareth Greenaway
* Sage Robins
* Michael Verhulst
* Andre Nelson
* Wayne Werner
* Alyssa Rock

## Meeting details

### Dates of note

- The first docs clinic will be held September 30.
- The full day documentation jam will be held October 7 from 8-5 MDT.
- The next Docs working group meeting is September 17.

### Collaboration with SaltStack training

- In Open Hours, there was a discussion about the need for better contributor
  guides and training materials.
- Andre pointed out that the Open Salt training offered by SaltStack provides
  high quality, comprehensive manuals that could be of value to Salt users.
- Action items:
  - Sage will initiate a conversation with SaltStack's training specialist
    Adam Cannon to talk about how the Open Docs working group can collaborate
    with training to potentially provide public access to some of these
    materials.

### First documentation clinic

- The first clinic will cover how to contribute the docs such as how to submit
  an issue, how to contribute to the documentation topics, and how to find the
  file for the module documentation.
- This clinic will be the setup for how to participate to the docs jam and we'll
  provide a video of the first clinic at that meeting.
- Action items:
  - Derek will schedule a dry run of the first docs testing clinic for next week
    or the following with Cassandra, Sage, Alyssa, and potentially others.
    SaltStack employees to figure out how long the process might take.

### Docs jam planning

- The pieces that we need to have in place for the docs jam:
  - First documentation clinic how-to video and supporting guides
  - Docs jam agenda (already complete)
  - Schedule for the docs jam Zoom room hosts
- Next steps:
  - Cassandra will ensure the docs jam is scheduled
  - Cassandra will develop the Zoom room host schedule closer to the doc jam
    date
  - Alyssa will ask Erin from the Google open source advocacy division to see
    if she'd be interested in speaking about the value of docs for open source.

### Hacktoberfest

- It's "Preptember" and we should begin thinking about how we will participate
  in Hacktoberfest.
- Action items:
  - We need to add "good first issue" labels to the Salt repo.
  - Everyone will take some time to read through the
    [Hacktoberfest Maintainers Guide](https://hacktoberfest.digitalocean.com/#maintainers)
    and come prepared to talk about what we might do to participate this year.

### Duplicating tickets to docs-hub using the Github API script

- We do have the ability to transfer issues to different repos in Github and
  Gitlab, but Sage is concerned about some of the functionality, such as
  metadata loss.
- We discussed the best workflows. It seems like we need some sort of open
  source project management system that can read across all open source repos in
  Github and Gitlab. We need to create a proof of concept.
- Action items:
  - Sage will create a first draft of a list of requirements for us to review
    in the next working group meeting.

### Next docs working group meeting: September 17
