# 2021-05-13 Meeting

## Attendees

- Derek Ardolf
- Sage Robins
- Bryce Larson
- Jim Cser
- Gary Giesen

## Meeting Details

- Q&A
- Community review
- Reviewing the **[Going forward](https://github.com/saltstack/docs-hub/blob/master/meeting-notes/2021-04-29.md#goals-moving-forward)** notes
  - Ensure issues exist for going forward tasks/goals
  - Assign issues
  - Create new issues if needed
- [YouTube Recording](https://youtu.be/euapBNEfGBk)
## Q&A

[MR: Improves style for map-files.rst](https://gitlab.com/saltstack/open/docs/salt-user-guide/-/merge_requests/54)
- Issues came up around `code-block` directive usage, and syntax highlighting for `.jinja` and `.sls` files.

Pygment types for `code-block` directives:
- `yaml+jinja`/`sls` lexer: https://pygments.org/docs/lexers/?highlight=console#pygments.lexers.templates.YamlJinjaLexer (this is yaml+jinja/sls)
- `yaml` lexer: https://pygments.org/docs/lexers/?highlight=console#pygments.lexers.data.YamlLexer
- `jinja` lexer: https://pygments.org/docs/lexers/?highlight=console#pygments.lexers.templates.DjangoLexer
- `none`/`text` lexer: https://pygments.org/docs/lexers/?highlight=console#special-lexers
  - Might be best to just go with `text` for non-highlighting. Only use `text` as last resort. `sls`/`yaml+jinja`, `yaml`, or `jinja` parsing may fail if the code snippet is partial or truncated, resulting in code that cannot be properly syntax-validated. This should be the only time something like `text` is used in place.

## Going forward

The goal of the next Salt Docs Working Group is to transition toward an action-oriented
approach: assigning issues, seeking help with issues, and working toward achieving
the long-term goals by completing tasks step-by-step.

The main focus will be on:
- [`salt-user-guide`](https://gitlab.com/saltstack/open/docs/salt-user-guide)
- [`salt-install-guide`](https://gitlab.com/saltstack/open/docs/salt-install-guide)

### Community pages



### Label types

Migrate labels over:

- `status: Assigned`
- `status: To Do`
- `status: Doing`
- `status: MR Submitted`
- `status: Reviewing`
- `status: Blocked`

New board(s):
- All inclusive (docs)
- Docs jam boards when events occur

#### `salt-user-guide`

- Complete "clean up" of `salt-user-guide` documentation
  - Jim has been using a [GitLab issue board for tracking](https://gitlab.com/saltstack/open/docs/salt-user-guide/-/boards/2310057)
  - MR reviews need to to happen, and merges
- Section on [Lab setup for Vagrant/VirtualBox and/or Docker](https://gitlab.com/saltstack/open/docs/salt-user-guide/-/issues/45)
- Left-hand nav TOC review
  - Create issue for this
  - Add Gary to MR for review
  - Clean it up by not having all documents be at the top-level. Instead of only captions,
  should the docs be in a drop-down left-hand nav?

#### `salt-install-guide`

- Salt Platform Support
  - Converting over the Supported Operating Systems PDF to `.rst`
  - Converting over the _Salt version lifecycle_ page from the Wordpress site to `.rst`
- Installing Salt
  - Page per base OS target on [`repo.saltproject.io`](https://repo.saltproject.io/): Ubuntu, Debian, RHEL, etc.
  - Native minions documentation: [MR/WIP: Native minion install and config docs](https://gitlab.com/saltstack/open/docs/salt-install-guide/-/merge_requests/5)
  - OS targets [in `salt` docs](https://docs.saltproject.io/en/latest/topics/installation/index.html#platform-specific-installation-instructions) that are not on `repo.saltproject.io`
    - Should be own drop-down section/nav similar to Native Minion docs
- Get feedback from Frode on how code snippets can be modified for best QA/testing automation
  around release time.
  - Create issue and MR example
  - Add Gary and Frode for MR review

#### Both repos

- Sphinx `v4.x`: Transition to the latest major release of Sphinx, and test that
  the extensions we use will work. We should also take advantage of one feature
  Derek was waiting for: [Allow user to use url to reference html logo & favicon](https://github.com/sphinx-doc/sphinx/pull/8737)
  - Create an issue/MRs for URL targeted logos/icons (Derek)
  - Take a look at the new features between v3 - v4 of Sphinx, and create issues for features of interest (Derek)
- [Salt style guide improvements, tooling, and automation](https://gitlab.com/saltstack/open/docs/salt-user-guide/-/issues/25)
  - `vale` and style guide
    - Basic `vale` style guide file for `salt`
      - Either store main file in `salt-user-guide`, or `salt-branding-guide`, or its own repo
    - Documentation on how to make use of `vale`
    - Any usage of `vale` that can be called by CI and/or `pre-commit` we should make use of
  - Accessbility reporting
    - Evaluate tools like [`a11y`](https://github.com/pa11y/pa11y)
    - Contribute upstream to `furo` where possible
  - Evaluate tools like [`html-proofer`](https://github.com/gjtorikian/html-proofer)
- Smart quotes autocorrection
  - Derek has a simple Python script that will do so, and can use `pre-commit` to call it. Needs to be converted to a pre-commit hook that can be imported into projects.
