# 2021-01-07 Meeting

## Attendees

- Derek Ardolf
- Wayne Werner
- Gary Giesen
- Bryce Larson
- Alyssa Rock

## Meeting Details

### Announcements

- The next Docs clinic will be held January 14 and will be led by Derek.
- The next Docs working group will be held January 21, 2021.

### Note that Alyssa is leaving the working group

- Decisions made:
  - Alyssa will have to temporarily leave this working group at the end of the
    month. Derek will remain as Docs working group captain and will run future
    Docs clinics for now.
  - After the next Docs Jam, we'll evaluate community interest and will
    determine whether to keep offering these events.

### Converting the Salt User Guide

- Decisions made:
  - Alan's source document is currently broken up into several small chapters
    with each comprising one Google Doc. In the previous Docs working group, we
    had decided to break up the conversion task by section (i.e. 1 section = 1
    ticket). Alan instead recommends breaking it up by chapter (i.e. 1 chapter
    = 1 ticket). We adopted this suggestion.
- The timeline for this project will be:
  - Revise Alan's document over the next two weeks.
  - The first week in February, Alan can provide us a copy of his final
    documents.
  - Create tickets for the document the first week in February.
  - Hold a community docs jam the first or second week of February to convert
    the document
- Action items:
  - Derek will follow up with Janae and Sage to schedule the docs jam date and
    a community rollout plan.
  - Derek will work with Janae about which version of Creative Commons to use to
    license this content.
  - Alyssa will follow up with Alan to get access to his document to assist with
    reviews over the next few weeks.
  - Alyssa will research a style guide for our documentation and make a
    recommendation about what to do. She'll schedule a meeting with Derek and
    anyone else who has a vested interest in issues of style.

### Miscellaneous items

- Derek created an open GitLab repository that includes all Salproject assets
- Pedro and Derek resolved this ticket about
  [Add rstcheck to pre-commit](https://github.com/saltstack/salt/issues/58668)

### Next docs working group meeting: January 21, 2021

Future:
- Where should the Twitch guide and other internal-ish documentation go?
