# 2021-02-18 Meeting

## Attendees

- Derek Ardolf
- Bryce Larson
- Gareth Greenway
- Gary Giesen
- Wayne Werner

## Meeting Details

### Announcements

- Docs Jam success!
- Docs Clinic next week: Feb. 25th

### Docs Jam recap

`salt-user-guide` links:
- [Sphinx-generated, shiny docs](https://saltstack.gitlab.io/open/docs/salt-user-guide/)
- [Source repo](https://gitlab.com/saltstack/open/docs/salt-user-guide)

Alyssa dropped the following recap in our
[SaltStack Community Slack](https://saltstackcommunity.herokuapp.com/)
#Documentation channel:

---

I want to give a huge thank you to everyone who came out and participated in
yesterday's Salt User Guide docs jam. We met all our benchmarks for success
with flying colors. Here's some of the highlights:

Really strong participation from community members with a wide variety of backgrounds
- Over the course of the day, we had about 35 participants who engaged in the 
  docs jam in one form or another (either by attending Tom Hatch's excellent
  keynote address or by helping with the docs jam itself). Our participants
  came from all levels of experience with Salt (novices to experts) and spanned
  across the globe (including the U.S., India, Europe, and Australia). One stat
  that I'm also proud to mention is that we had at least 4 participants who
  joined us from the technical writing community, which is pretty great
  considering the tremendous need for technical writer engagement in OSS. 

The project is now mostly done:
- We had 17 Google Doc chapters than needed to be converted to rST. Over the
  course of one day, we had 15 merge requests, 9 of which have already been
  merged in as I write this. The remaining 2 chapters are on track to get
  merged in soon. By the time those get merged in, we will have had 8 new
  unique contributors to the project.

Many new users are now set up to contribute to Salt and the docs than before

- Our team of core developers, SREs, community managers, and technical writers
  ensured that everyone who attended receive one-on-one mentorship getting
  their environments set up. These community members are now better prepared to
  make future contributions to the project and other OSS projects in the
  future.

We want to call out a few superstars - `@apizz` gets a huge shoutout for
submitting 7 merge requests while `@Gary T. Giesen` also made a big
contribution with 4 merge requests. Awesome work, both of you!

And I just want to give a final thank you for everyone here who helped out and
invested their time to help grow our community and improve our documentation.
Thanks to everyone for being awesome!

---

#### Docs Jam: Since then

The rest of the open PRs have been merged! A total of **18 chapters** are in
the current guide!

We've opened up a follow-up issue:
- https://gitlab.com/saltstack/open/docs/salt-user-guide/-/issues/24

### Future of the working groups and docs clinics

Will we continue doing Docs clinics and the working group?
- Yes! We are going to try running it for another month or two to see whether
  it is a continued, viable workgroup to run. With Alyssa leaving us, Derek is
  now the main captain of the ship, along with fellow Docs heroes. The Docs
  Clinics will continue to run on alternate weeks, streaming on Twitch:
  - [SaltStackInc Twitch](https://www.twitch.tv/saltstackinc)

### Next steps

What's next?
- Brainstorm/document ideas here, and convert them to issues in appropriate
  repos.

Ideas:
- Potential future of Sphinx theme with HTML:
  - https://github.com/pradyunsg/furo
  - Questions to ask ourselves with themes:
    - Search: We use Google CSE, we need to move off of it
      - duckduckgo as an alternative to managing/integrating CSE?
      - Level-up built-in Sphinx potential: https://github.com/jameslittle230/stork
      - Algolia to search across all docsets?
      - Version-targeted search queries

Breaking up Salt docs:
- `salt-user-guide` to become the primary topics/subjects of the salt docs, while all docstring generated docs stay within the `salt` repo.
- We should experiment with new UX and TOC / navigation of both the core reference
  module docs and the `salt-user-guide`. Do so while working with the `furo` theme.

Docs code/example test automation:
- Look into both Sphinx (doctest?) and other tooling for setting up and testing
  example code.

Style guide linting/automation:
- Created an issue for `salt-user-guide`: https://gitlab.com/saltstack/open/docs/salt-user-guide/-/issues/25
- `salt-user-guide` provides us the opportunity to move faster, and develop
  great style guide tooling, which could evolve into tools for use in any
  Salt project with Sphinx docs.

Follow-up items:
- Verify that we don't use Google Analytics with new docsets
- Verify that `furo` theming is Debian-friendly and devoid of tracking tools
  - Google analytics, youtube links, etc.

### Next events

- Docs clinic: February 25th, 2021
- Docs working group event: March 4th, 2021
  - If any items need to be tabled or discussed in a future meeting, note them
    here.

### Misc. notes for future

> This is a placeholder for notes not belonging anywhere else
