# 2021-01-07 Meeting

## Attendees

- Derek Ardolf
- Gareth Greenaway
- Gary Giesen
- Alyssa Rock

## Meeting Details

### Announcements

- The next community docs jam will be held all day Wednesday, February 10. The
  docs jam will be spent converting the Salt User Guide from a Google Doc into
  .rst.
- The next Docs clinic will be held January 28 and will be led by Derek.
- The next Docs working group will be held February 4, 2021.


### Community Doc Jam preparations

- Progress reports:
  - Derek and Alyssa have been setting up the new repo and populating it with
    content.
  - We've also been coordinating technical reviews of the source content.
  - Derek and Alyssa tried converting one chapter to .rst and noted problems or
    things we need to tell doc jam contributors.
- Proposed timeline:
  - **Week starting with Jan. 25:**
    - Reviews of the source content should be complete and Alan will incorporate
      any insights from the review into the guide.
    - Coordinate with Sage and Janae to begin publicity for the community docs
      jam.
  - **Week starting with Feb. 1:**
    - Alan is field testing the Salt User Guide in a training class one more
      time.
    - Derek or Alyssa will ensure a copy of the Google Docs have public access.
    - Derek or Alyssa will coordinate to build out the tickets for the docs jam
      and all of the supporting participation documents (style guide,
      contributing to the docs guide).
  - **Week starting with Feb. 8:**
    - Make sure everything is ready for the docs jam!
- Action items:
  - Alyssa will set up a meeting with Derek, Sage, Janae to talk about publicity
    and swag for the community jam.
  - Derek to search for a GitHub to GitLab translation doc.
  - Derek will create an issue to track post-migration tasks related to
    navigating to the new Salt User Guide from various sources.


### Docs versioning

- A question about how we approach Salt docs: why do we keep different
  versions of our docs? It seems like our docsets include features that makes it
  so we shouldn't be hosting multiple versions, because:
  - We currently use special rst notes to show when something is deprecated,
    being deprecated, being introduced, etc. and in what version. This means
    that if someone is looking at the docs, at a specific module, they will see
    what version something was introduced in. This seems like a better UX,
    because then people are both seeing what is supported in their current
    version, and what they will gain if using a newer version.
  - A lot of documentation is completely useless in older versions when updates
    happen to them: installation guides, contributing/developer guides, etc.
    Only the latest matters, regardless of salt version.
  - A lot of times, we are fixing incorrect documentation, or missing
    documentation, that impacts several versions of salt, such as minion and
    master configuration values that have been undocumented but are finally
    being documented. It isn't because it is a new option in the latest Salt, it
    has always been an option.
  - Much of the documentation that exists per version is an exact duplicate of
    the last version.
- With all of this said, what thoughts there are here around maintaining
  multiple versions. We would gain quite a bit by not having them:
  - Simplified build pipelines.
  - Able to drop maintaining Google custom search engine configurations, and
    also probably have an easier time enabling a new search system.
  - In cases where it isn't documented that a feature was added/removed in a
    newer version of Salt, issues would be open to improve the documentation.
  - Users will see what they are missing out on, and what features are slated
    for deprecation, whenever they look at the docs for features they use. If
    they only look at this information in their pinned, older version of Salt,
    they miss out on these things they may catch before migrating.
  - User would always be looking at the latest, appropriate documentation in the
    install docs, developer/contrib guide docs, etc. Really any docs that exist
    outside of the pymodule docstrings that are about Salt in general, and the
    Salt project, which don't merely stay pinned to a version of Salt.

## Internal documentation

- Where should the Twitch guide and other internal-ish documentation go?
- We have a need for some way of documenting internal process such as our
  Twitch guide, policies and procedures (such as how we do Triage), how we
  set up the pipeline on the back-end, etc.
- We discussed whether openly publicizing this information posed a security risk
  and determined it would not.
- Decisions made:
  - Our working group would like to make a non-binding recommendation that we
    create a new repo under the Salt org for internal documentation. It could
    be called "governance" or "internal-docs" or "policies-and-procedures" or
    something similar to that.

## Outdated repo links in deprecated documentation

- Gary mentioned that there has been a discussion on Reddit about how the Salt
  2019 documentation is pointing to the old, outdated repo.
- Action items:
  - Derek will reach out to Frode about how to update these links in the old
    versions and will report back at the next working group.

### Next docs working group meeting: February 4, 2021

Future:
- If any items need to be tabled or discussed in a future meeting, note them
  here.
