# 2021-04-29 Meeting

## Attendees

- Derek Ardolf
- Sage Robins
- Ken Jordan
- Gary Giesen
- Jim Cser

## Meeting Details

### Docs Strategy

We can take the template, modify it, open source it under Apache v2. Jason also confirmed that Algolia is the way to go, and that most of the open source projects he works with go with it. I did some extra digging, and if we get approved by Algolia's open source program:

> Standard PAYG plan and to include 200 units for free which translates to 200,000 records and 200,000 search requests (and up to 2,000,000 indexing operations) per month (a $180/month value).

We'd be able to then allow people to narrow their searches to particular sub-docsets on docs.saltproject.io (for example, someone just wants to search across idem* projects, etc.) by the looks of things. Would be a huge boost in UX/DX, from a docs perspective.
I imagine something such as:
Main docs landing site: Hugo generated to docs.saltproject.io

Several subpaths of docs.saltproject.io/* will be Sphinx-generated HTML docsets for many projects, and will use a Sphinx plugin to allow for interlinking between docsets
Give Search a shot with Algolia (their option for Open Source projects), and add Algolia search bar into everything
And probably extend builddocs to include lots of other repos at build time.

- Docs Clinic next week: May 6th
  - We can't add this to the Twitch calendar, since the Twitch calendar only allows
    for daily and/or weekly scheduled streams, not bi-weekly/bi-monthly/etc.

Axe https://github.com/saltstack/salt-get-started

### The Salt TOC

Salt Project has been talking about using a Docs jam to:

- Reorganize the TOC of `salt`, make it more user/dev friendly, and have it easier to navigate depending on need (user, fundamentals, developer)
- Should really have a Choose Your Own Adventure style/page for the `salt` docs themselves

### Salt Project board

We need some issues and direct focus on tasks to tackle at a piece.

If not looking at `salt-install-guide` and `salt-user-guide`, the Docs project
board in `salt` can be found here:
- [GitHub: Salt Docs project board](https://github.com/orgs/saltstack/projects/32)

### Notes of Interest

#### Borked docs pipeline fixed

Issue in Salt raised this week: [Documentation broken in `master`](https://github.com/saltstack/salt/issues/59798)

#### Dependency tree complexity

A follow-up to the broken docs pipeline is this PR:
- [Update Sphinx and docs.in / docs.txt dependency trees](https://github.com/saltstack/salt/pull/59823)

We really should evaluate something like `poetry`, in addition to tooling like
`safety`, as integrations into our pipelines.
- I need to work with Tyler to ensure lessons learned are being implemented in the bootstrapping of new `idem` projects.
- If able, would be a good idea to see about getting `poetry` into the bootstrapping of new `salt-ext` / salt extensions?
  - Pedro has created some simple tooling on generating new `salt-ext` projects, and we need to take a look at how dependency trees are managed, whether `poetry` is a viable solution, and how test automation would work.
  - How do we avoid dependency tree conflicts with `salt` and a `salt-ext`?

#### EPIC: Undocumented minion/master configurations

[Next Docs Jam idea: PR salt/58112](https://github.com/saltstack/docs-hub/blob/master/meeting-notes/2021-03-04.md#next-docs-jam-idea-pr-salt58112)
  - https://github.com/saltstack/salt/issues/58112
  - Recent Twitch stream on this (audio/video is totally unsynced, should be fixed by next stream): https://www.twitch.tv/videos/945679337

### Next events

- Docs clinic: May 20th, 2021
- Docs working group event: May 27th, 2021
  - Derek will be gone, someone else will lead

### Goals moving forward

The goal of the next Salt Docs Working Group is to transition toward an action-oriented
approach: assigning issues, seeking help with issues, and working toward achieving
the long-term goals by completing tasks step-by-step.

The main focus will be on:
- `salt-user-guide`
- `salt-install-guide`

#### `salt-user-guide`

- Complete "clean up" of `salt-user-guide` documentation
  - Jim has been using a [GitLab issue board for tracking](https://gitlab.com/saltstack/open/docs/salt-user-guide/-/boards/2310057)
- Section on [Lab setup for Vagrant/VirtualBox and/or Docker](https://gitlab.com/saltstack/open/docs/salt-user-guide/-/issues/45)
- Left-hand nav TOC review
  - Clean it up by not having all documents be at the top-level. Instead of only captions,
  should the docs be in a drop-down left-hand nav?

#### `salt-install-guide`

- Salt Platform Support
  - Converting over the Supported Operating Systems PDF to `.rst`
  - Converting over the _Salt version lifecycle_ page from the Wordpress site to `.rst`
- Installing Salt
  - Page per base OS target on [`repo.saltproject.io`](https://repo.saltproject.io/): Ubuntu, Debian, RHEL, etc.
  - Native minions documentation: [MR/WIP: Native minion install and config docs](https://gitlab.com/saltstack/open/docs/salt-install-guide/-/merge_requests/5)
  - OS targets [in `salt` docs](https://docs.saltproject.io/en/latest/topics/installation/index.html#platform-specific-installation-instructions) that are not on `repo.saltproject.io`
    - Should be own drop-down section/nav similar to Native Minion docs
- Get feedback from Frode on how code snippets can be modified for best QA/testing automation
  around release time.

#### Both repos

- Sphinx `v4.x`: Transition to the latest major release of Sphinx, and test that
  the extensions we use will work. We should also take advantage of one feature
  I was waiting for: [Allow user to use url to reference html logo & favicon](https://github.com/sphinx-doc/sphinx/pull/8737)
- [Salt style guide improvements, tooling, and automation](https://gitlab.com/saltstack/open/docs/salt-user-guide/-/issues/25)
  - `vale` and style guide
    - Basic `vale` style guide file for `salt`
      - Either store main file in `salt-user-guide`, or `salt-branding-guide`, or its own repo
    - Documentation on how to make use of `vale`
    - Any usage of `vale` that can be called by CI and/or `pre-commit` we should make use of
  - Accessbility reporting
    - Evaluate tools like [`a11y`](https://github.com/pa11y/pa11y)
    - Contribute upstream to `furo` where possible
  - Evaluate tools like [`html-proofer`](https://github.com/gjtorikian/html-proofer)
- Smart quotes autocorrection
  - Derek has a simple Python script that will do so, and can use `pre-commit` to call it. Needs to be converted to a pre-commit hook that can be imported into projects.
