# 2021-02-04 Meeting

## Attendees

- Derek Ardolf
- Sage Robins
- Alyssa Rock
- Bryce Larson
- Gary Giesen

## Meeting Details

### Announcements

- The next community docs jam will be held all day Wednesday, February 10. The
  docs jam will be spent converting the Salt User Guide from a Google Doc into
  .rst.
- The next Docs working group will be held February 18, 2021.


### Community docs jam preparations

- Progress reports:
  - Alyssa has been busy creating all the supporting documents for the doc jam
    and they're nearly ready. The main outstanding task is to build out issues.
- Publicity: We're going to create a few different pitches aimed at three
  different audiences: new Salt community members, seasoned Salt community
  members, and technical writers. Action items:
  - Alyssa will draft the copy for the three different audiences.
  - Sage will publish the copy to the Salt community channels.
  - Derek will publish to Reddit communities.
  - Alyssa will publish to technical writing communities.
- Meausuring the success of the docs jam:
  - Improvement in number of participants over the previous docs jam.
  - Progress on converting the topics. Note: It's okay if not all chapters get
    converted in a single day. We can work on converting the rest in working
    groups
  - Number of new issues created for the docs.
  - Improvement in the number of people who begin participating in the docs
    working group or docs clinics.
- One of the post docs jam tasks we'll need to think through is how to make
  this new doc set discoverable in various channels. Sage suggests creating a
  mind map of possible channels after the project is complete.
- Action items:
  - See publiciity related action items above.
  - Derek will add a note to the Contributing Guide about how to set up your
    environment for Windows.


### Future of the working groups and docs clinic

- Will we continue doing Docs clinics and the working group?
- Decided: Derek will continue to host the clinics and working groups for at
  least a month after the docs jam to see if it generates community interest.


### Next docs working group event: February 10, 2021

Future:
- If any items need to be tabled or discussed in a future meeting, note them
  here.
