# Notes from 2024-05-16

## Attendees
- Shane Lee (@twangboy)
- Dafydd Jones (@dafyddj)
- Alex Angel
- Lea
- David G

## Agenda
- Welcome
- Releases
  - 3006.8
  - 3007.1
- Recent PR Merges for Windows
  - modules/cmdmod.py:
    cmd.script with runas - https://github.com/saltstack/salt/pull/66447
  - utils/win_lgpo_netsh.py:
    use powershell instead of netsh - https://github.com/saltstack/salt/pull/66434

## Discussed Previously
- Mend Renovate
  -  A way to keep our package definitions and github actions versions updated
- Copier:
  - Project template tool
- Salt-call as a user without needing permissions
- Winrepo: graylog-collector-sidecar PR from Krombel
  - Discussed options and changes

## Today's Discussion
- Community Issues and Discussion
- Demos
  - Dafyddj: salt-call
    - Demoed using salt-call using Saltfile to run in local mode in the user
      context without requiring permissions to `ProgramData\Salt Project\Salt`
    - Changes in 3006.5+ broke the Saltfile so this configuration no longer
      works. May be due to the CVE release that addressed some path injection
      vulnerabilities. The `Saltfile` uses relative paths that are outside the
      expected path
- Salt Minion Chocolatey packages are out of date.
  - Older versions are using the wrong URL that becomes out of date with each
    release. They need to user the `minor` directory.
  - The `.nupkg` file is just a zip file that contains scripts and metadata
    about the script. We need to update the older `.nupkg` files and submit a
    pull request to get those updated. Hopefully the hashes are unchanged, they
    should be.
  - Lea volunteered to do this
- Master config batch settings
  - Lea is trying to understand how to set the batch settings in the master
    config so that she doesn't have to apply them with each command on the CLI.
    Salt CLI doesn't seem to be picking those up.

## TODO
- Twangboy: https://github.com/saltstack/salt-windows-nsis/issues/15
  - `/move-config` options works from the GUI, but not Silently
- Twangboy: Test: https://github.com/saltstack/salt-windows-nsis/issues/11
  - I'm sure there are tests for this
- Lea: Update chocolatey salt minion installer definitions
