# Notes from 2020-12-15

## Attendees
- Shane Lee
- Markus
- Dafydd

## Agenda
- Welcome

## Multiprocessing Off
- Turning multiprocessing off worked very well for Markus
- Need to keep an eye on the jobs and any other irregularities
- Markus has found an issue

## Timeout issue
- Encountered a ``timeout`` issue in 3001
- Includes the Unicode fixes
- The minion service is running, but it cannot reach the master
- Set ping_interval to 2
- Stop the master
- There will be a stacktrace in the log 
- Needs some more investigation, could not replicate
- https://github.com/saltstack/salt/issues/59064

## NSSM Issue
- The NSSM project (https://nssm.cc/) is no longer maintained and is considered
  a dead project
- We used NSSM to make the salt-minion service restart every time it died for
  whatever reason. I believe we have addressed the issues causing the minion to
  fail after 7 tries... and we may no longer need NSSM. We need to try adding
  the service directly and NOT using NSSM
- NSSM is also flagged by some Antivirus' as "potentially unwanted software" as
  it is used by many malware products to keep their services running
- NSSM also leaves many events in the Windows Application Event logs with
  undefined Descriptions that cannot be updated because the project is not
  maintained
Issue created here: https://github.com/saltstack/salt/issues/59148
  
## Master Key Rotation (Feature)
Some security shops require all keys to be rotated on a periodic basis. There is
currently no easy way to rotate the master key and have it propogate down to its
minions.
If a minion is offline when the master rolls its key, there is no way to get it
after the fact... the minion fails to connect.
Some sort of key management system that allows for expiring and future keys.
The system would handle the roll over
This is a problem with Windows Desktops/Laptops that aren't ALWAYS connected to
the master.
There may be some unknown ramifications to multi-master environments.
Issue created here: https://github.com/saltstack/salt/issues/59149

## Action Items
- Dafydd: Automate semantic release (from salt-formulas)
- Dafydd: Investigate the installation tests (stretch)
- Shane/Joe: Start fixing broken Package Definition files
- Shane: Write a SEP for Install Salt Anywhere and address the possibility of
         having multiple instances of salt-minion on the same machine
  - Program Files
    - ProgramData
    - /Users/username/AppData
