# Notes from 2024-06-27

## Attendees
- Shane Lee (@twangboy)
- Dafydd Jones (@dafyddj)

## Agenda
- Welcome
- Releases
  - 3006.9 (in-progress)
- Recent PR Merges for Windows
  - modules/cmdmod.py:
    `cmd.script` with runas - https://github.com/saltstack/salt/pull/66447
    - This one has some problems

## Discussed Previously
- Demos
  - Dafyddj: salt-call
    - Demoed using salt-call using Saltfile to run in local mode in the user
      context without requiring permissions to `ProgramData\Salt Project\Salt`
    - Changes in 3006.5+ broke the Saltfile so this configuration no longer
      works. May be due to the CVE release that addressed some path injection
      vulnerabilities. The `Saltfile` uses relative paths that are outside the
      expected path
- Salt Minion Chocolatey packages are out of date.
  - Older versions are using the wrong URL that becomes out of date with each
    release. They need to user the `minor` directory.
  - The `.nupkg` file is just a zip file that contains scripts and metadata
    about the script. We need to update the older `.nupkg` files and submit a
    pull request to get those updated. Hopefully the hashes are unchanged, they
    should be.
  - Great job, Lea:
  - https://github.com/barkingfoodog/ChocolateySaltMinion/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed
- Master config batch settings
  - Lea is trying to understand how to set the batch settings in the master
    config so that she doesn't have to apply them with each command on the CLI.
    Salt CLI doesn't seem to be picking those up.

## Today's Discussion
- Community Issues and Discussion
- Winrepo Renovate
  - There is now a pinned issue for manually updating versions in the package
    definitions. You just check the box in the issue and wait a few seconds.
    Renovate will pick it up and update everything that it has defined in its
    `renovate.json5` file.
  - We need to create some metadata comments in the sls files we want renovate
    to update
- archive.repo.saltproject.io
  - I need to find out if this is still used and if we need to archive any of
    our more recent releases
- https://github.com/saltstack/salt/issues/65265
  - This is a pretty active issue regarding connectivity issues. It has gotten
    worse in 3007. I'm going to bring it to dwoz's attention.

## TODO
- Twangboy: https://github.com/saltstack/salt-windows-nsis/issues/15
  - `/move-config` options works from the GUI, but not Silently
- Twangboy: Test: https://github.com/saltstack/salt-windows-nsis/issues/11
  - I'm sure there are tests for this
- Lea: Update chocolatey salt minion installer definitions
