# Windows Working Group Meeting
# Notes from 2025-12-18

## Attendees
- Shane Lee (@twangboy)
- Dafydd Jones
- Barney

## Agenda
- Welcome
- CICD Status
  - 3006.x : passing
  - 3007.x : passing
  - master : failing

- Releases:
  - 3006.17 : today
  - 3007.9  : today
  - 3008rc  : early 2026

- Noteable PRs:
  - BlackDuck

- Discussed Previously:
  - win_wua.list install=True on Windows 10. Updates that require a reboot
    seem to not actually be installed. Maybe it's shutting down without
    updating. Is there a way to get `system.reboot` to select the option to
    trigger the update. Probably still an issue with Windows 11...
  - system.get_system_info could be useful as grains (chassis type, computer
    type) for targeting. WMIC is slow... usually. Can make it optional using a
    config option.

- Community Issues and Discussion
  - lgpo_reg: key names with `.` breaks it. The value is set, but the parsing
    of the return fails. (68192: salt/modules/lgpo_reg.py: line 215)
    https://github.com/saltstack/salt/pull/68192/changes#diff-098c873e283213e363bc479e02723cab4683b36c689323db0be1b725e52d8795R215
    States run with test=True... old states no longer return. These states
    worked fine before the above PR
  - Changes made in winrepo-ng
  - Talked about community contributor access and some upcoming Broadcom policy
    concering Open Source Software (OSS)

## TODO
- Twangboy: Ask about the master minion
- Twangboy: Ask Daniel about 3007/3008 releases
- Twangboy: Talk to Daniel about building Arm Packages for Windows
- Twangboy: Investigate making powershell the default shell on Windows
- Twangboy:
  - Community maintainers need clear guidance on what we want them to do. If
    the maintainer has an hour to give to Salt, what should they do? We need a
    policy document with clear guidance.
- Twangboy:
  - lgpo_reg:
    - Need to create a module that will generate a state based on the contents
      of the Registry.pol file. This could/should be a salt extension
- Dafydd: Investigate pythonnet
  https://devblogs.microsoft.com/powershell/hosting-powershell-in-a-python-script/

