# Windows Working Group Meeting
# Notes from 2025-09-18

## Attendees
- Shane Lee (@twangboy)
- Daffyd

## Agenda
- Welcome
- CICD Status
  - 3006.x : passing
  - 3007.x : passing
  - master : failing

- Releases:
  - 3006.16 : soon
  - 3007.8  : soon
  - 3008rc  : fall 2025

- Discussed Previously:
  - Master changes IP Address
    - The minions lose connectivity when the master IP address changes
    - This happens on minions (laptops) that go into hybernation
    - Restarting the minion service allows the minion to reconnect
    - Why does the service need to be restarted
  - Native Arm64 Installer for Windows
    - Github now has Arm64 Windows Runners (2025-08-14)
      https://github.blog/changelog/2025-04-14-windows-arm64-hosted-runners-now-available-in-public-preview/
    - Need to talk to Daniel about testing this out
  - Maybe start working on the Winrepo stuff asynchronously
    - Trimming out the older stuff... packages that no longer exist

- Noteable PRs:
  - cmdmod: https://github.com/saltstack/salt/pull/68156
  - runas: https://github.com/saltstack/salt/pull/68157
  - merge forward: https://github.com/saltstack/salt/pull/68296

- Community Issues and Discussion
  - master_alive_interval: Need to discuss a sane default. Is there a scenario
    where you wouldn't want the minion to attempt to reconnect?
    - There is a mismatch in the config file between what is documented and
      what the default actually is. Should create an issue to bring these in
      line.
- Bootstrap Script needs the ability to install extensions as a part of the
  salt installation. There is an open issue for this:
  https://github.com/saltstack/salt-bootstrap/issues/1975
- GitPython should be part of the Salt package for Linux. We include it in
  Windows packages. This would let GitFS work out of the box.
- What is the master minion. How is it different from a minion running on the
  master? Can you target that minion? Are there security issues for doing so?

## TODO
- Twangboy: Ask about the master minion
- Twangboy: Talk to Daniel about building Arm Packages for Windows
- Twangboy: Investigate making powershell the default shell on Windows
- Twangboy: We need to communicate better with our community volunteers exactly
            what we want them to do... how they can contribute.
- Twangboy:
  - Community maintainers need clear guidance on what we want them to do. If
    the maintainer has an hour to give to Salt, what should they do? We need a
    policy document with clear guidance.
- Twangboy:
  - lgpo_reg:
    - Need to create a module that will generate a state based on the contents
      of the Registry.pol file. This could/should be a salt extension
- Dafydd:   Investigate pythonnet
            https://devblogs.microsoft.com/powershell/hosting-powershell-in-a-python-script/
- Dafydd:   Create an issue for the lgpo_reg module to not write user policies
            to the registry as those should be handled by Windows when the user
            logs in

