# Windows Working Group Meeting
# Notes from 2025-11-20

## Attendees
- Shane Lee (@twangboy)
- Dafydd Jones
- Rob Robertson

## Agenda
- Welcome
- CICD Status
  - 3006.x : passing
  - 3007.x : passing
  - master : failing

- Releases:
  - 3006.17 : today
  - 3007.9  : today
  - 3008rc  : early 2026

- Noteable PRs:
  - BlackDuck
  - lgpo_reg: https://github.com/saltstack/salt/pull/68463
  - cmdmod:   https://github.com/saltstack/salt/pull/68448

- Discussed Previously:
  - Stability issues on 3006.14. 3007 releases seem to be more stable than 3006
    releases.
  - issue with winrepo where the pkg module is looking in the user hive to
    match installed software.
  - GitPython vs PyGit2. PyGit2 doesn't fetch changed tags on the master. The
    changed tags aren't automatically pulled down. New tags are pulled down,
    but modified tags are not. The cache isn't being updated? Never seen the
    problem with GitPython.

- Community Issues and Discussion
  - win_wua.list install=True on Windows 10. Updates that require a reboot
    seem to not actually be installed. Maybe it's shutting down without
    updating. Is there a way to get `system.reboot` to select the option to
    trigger the update. Probably still an issue with Windows 11...
  - system.get_system_info could be useful as grains (chassis type, computer
    type) for targeting. WMIC is slow... usually. Can make it optional using a
    config option.

## TODO
- Twangboy: Ask about the master minion
- Twangboy: Ask Daniel about 3007/3008 releases
- Twangboy: Talk to Daniel about building Arm Packages for Windows
- Twangboy: Investigate making powershell the default shell on Windows
- Twangboy:
  - Community maintainers need clear guidance on what we want them to do. If
    the maintainer has an hour to give to Salt, what should they do? We need a
    policy document with clear guidance.
- Twangboy:
  - lgpo_reg:
    - Need to create a module that will generate a state based on the contents
      of the Registry.pol file. This could/should be a salt extension
- Dafydd: Investigate pythonnet
  https://devblogs.microsoft.com/powershell/hosting-powershell-in-a-python-script/

