# Windows Working Group Meeting
# Notes from 2025-07-17

## Attendees
- Shane Lee (@twangboy)
- Dafyddj

## Agenda
- Welcome
- CICD Status
  - 3006.x failing
  - 3007.x failing
  - master failing

- Releases:
  - 3006.13 : released
  - 3007.5  : released
  - 3006.14 : released
  - 3007.6  : released
  - 3008rc  : fall 2025

- Discussed Previously:
  - Tenable Scans causing DoS on master
    https://github.com/saltstack/salt/pull/66519 (issue)
    FIXED
  - Community maintainers need clear guidance on what we want them to do. If
    the maintainer has an hour to give to Salt, what should they do? We need a
    policy document with clear guidance.

- Noteable PRs:
  - cmdmod - https://github.com/saltstack/salt/pull/68156
  - runas - https://github.com/saltstack/salt/pull/68157

- Community Issues and Discussion
  - Working on the pkg.installed with force option
  - Master changes IP Address
    - The minions lose connectivity when the master IP address changes
    - This happens on minions (laptops) that go into hybernation
    - Restarting the minion service allows the minion to reconnect
    - Why does the service need to be restarted
  - Winrepo is looking good
    - Maybe need to trim the repo down
    - Use SPM (Salt Package Manager) to reduce reliance on GitFS
    - Maybe have a contrib repo for all the old packages
    - Discussed using the `winrepo_branch` config option on the master to set
      the tag for winrepo. That way the users aren't getting every little thing
      that is happening on the master branch. They could also avoid getting a
      breaking change when we start removing package defintions because they're
      pinned to a specific version.
    - We need to create a new repo `salt-winrepo-contrib` as a holder for
      deprecated package definitions
    - We need to provide documentation on how to pin winrepo to a specific
      release.
    - Message that we're doing this to prevent unexpected changes from impacting
      them. Keep an eye on release notes.

## TODO
- Twangboy: Investigate the pkg.install 3006.10 issue
            https://github.com/saltstack/salt/issues/67902
- Twangboy: Any idea when the next 3006.11 will happen
- Twangboy: Investigate making powershell the default shell on Windows
- Twangboy: We need to communicate better with our community volunteers exactly
            what we want them to do... how they can contribute.
- Twangboy:
  - Community maintainers need clear guidance on what we want them to do. If
    the maintainer has an hour to give to Salt, what should they do? We need a
    policy document with clear guidance.
- Twangboy:
  - lgpo_reg:
    - Currently writes the registry as well, maybe we need to make that
      configurable
    - User policies are set in the context of the service account. They probably
      shouldn't be written to the registry at all as that is applied when the
      user logs in.
    - Need to create a module that will generate a state based on the contents
      of the Registry.pol file. This could/should be a salt extension
- Dafydd:   Investigate pythonnet
            https://devblogs.microsoft.com/powershell/hosting-powershell-in-a-python-script/
- Dafydd:   Create an issue for the lgpo_reg module to not write user policies
            to the registry as those should be handled by Windows when the user
            logs in

