# Windows Working Group Meeting
# Notes from 2025-10-16

## Attendees
- Shane Lee (@twangboy)
- Cristiano Kubiaki
- vinay
- Marc
- Daffyd

## Agenda
- Welcome
- CICD Status
  - 3006.x : passing
  - 3007.x : passing
  - master : failing

- Releases:
  - 3006.17 : soon
  - 3007.9  : soon
  - 3008rc  : fall 2025

- Discussed Previously:
  - master_alive_interval: Need to discuss a sane default. Is there a scenario
    where you wouldn't want the minion to attempt to reconnect?
    - There is a mismatch in the config file between what is documented and
      what the default actually is. Should create an issue to bring these in
      line.
- Bootstrap Script needs the ability to install extensions as a part of the
  salt installation. There is an open issue for this:
  https://github.com/saltstack/salt-bootstrap/issues/1975
- GitPython should be part of the Salt package for Linux. We include it in
  Windows packages. This would let GitFS work out of the box.
- What is the master minion. How is it different from a minion running on the
  master? Can you target that minion? Are there security issues for doing so?

- Noteable PRs:

- Community Issues and Discussion
  - Stability issues on 3006.14. 3007 releases seem to be more stable than 3006
    releases.
  - issue with winrepo where the pkg module is looking in the user hive to
    match installed software.
  - GitPython vs PyGit2. PyGit2 doesn't fetch changed tags on the master. The
    changed tags aren't automatically pulled down. New tags are pulled down,
    but modified tags are not. The cache isn't being updated? Never seen the
    problem with GitPython.

## TODO
- Twangboy: Ask about the master minion
- Twangboy: Ask Daniel about 3007/3008 releases
- Twangboy: Talk to Daniel about building Arm Packages for Windows
- Twangboy: Investigate making powershell the default shell on Windows
- Twangboy: We need to communicate better with our community volunteers exactly
            what we want them to do... how they can contribute.
- Twangboy:
  - Community maintainers need clear guidance on what we want them to do. If
    the maintainer has an hour to give to Salt, what should they do? We need a
    policy document with clear guidance.
- Twangboy:
  - lgpo_reg:
    - Need to create a module that will generate a state based on the contents
      of the Registry.pol file. This could/should be a salt extension
- Dafydd:   Investigate pythonnet
            https://devblogs.microsoft.com/powershell/hosting-powershell-in-a-python-script/
- Dafydd:   Create an issue for the lgpo_reg module to not write user policies
            to the registry as those should be handled by Windows when the user
            logs in

