# 2019-06-18 Meeting (Tuesday 1530 UTC)

## Introductions
- Shane Lee: Leading the working group. SaltStack
- Chad Mcmorrow: SaltStack
- Joe Eacott: SaltStack
- Markus Kramer: Combined bitTorrent with Salt, has many Windows clients
- Rigel Marcinik: Standard usage of Salt

## Purpose
Shane:
Come together as a community to make Salt awesome on Windows. Improve
stability. Add features that people care about.

## Background
Most recent effort for Salt on Windows have been directed towards stability.
The test suite is running on Windows though there are still some issues that
need to be worked out. PRs and Branch builds are now running tests on Windows.
Additionally all PRs are required to have tests written and the tests must be
passing before PRs can be merged.

## Pain Points
- Missing functionality in the service execution module.
  - Missing `service.create`
- Unicode issues on Windows
- No supported MSI installer on Windows
- No nightly builds for Windows for either .exe nor .msi
- Ability to make some parts of the installation optional
  - pip
  - salt-cloud

## Should we support it
- Active Directory
  - Read Only Access?
  - Ability to add/remove users
  - Not a lot of interest
- IIS
  - Already have a modules for this
  - Add additional functionality
- MSSQL
  - Maybe. Ability to configure it
- Exchange Server: No Interest
- Office 365 Foundations: No Interest
- Sharepoint: No Interest
- Windows Event Logging:
  - Have Salt log to application logs in Windows
  - Ability to query event logs
  - Ability to configure logging
- Ability to install Salt anywhere
  - Use the registry to store the location of the config file
  - Lock that key down

## Action Items
- Create a `service.create` state for Windows : Rigel
- Migrate to Python 3.6 / 3.7 : Shane
- Verify defaults on Windows : Markus
- Windows Event Logs : Chad

## Followup Meetings
We'll be having two followup meetings to further discuss how the MSI Salt repo
works and to show how to setup a build environment, run tests, and write new
tests.
- Salt Testing Meeting (Shane): 0930 MDT (1530 UTC) on Wednesday, June 26
  - Setup a dev environment
  - Setup the test environment
  - Run a single test
  - Run a group of tests using a names-file
  - Create a unit test
  - Create an integration test
  - Attendees: (Rigel, Joe, Chad, Markus)
- MSI Architecture Meeting (Markus): 0930 MDT (1530 UTC) on Tuesday, July 2
  - One of many meetings to better understand the MSI system
  - Mirror the functionality of the NullSoft installer
  - Discuss parts of Salt that can be installed optionally
    - Pip
    - Salt-Cloud
