# Windows Working Group Meeting
# Notes from 2026-03-19

## Attendees
- Shane Lee (@twangboy)
- Dafydd Jones
- Andrii Chornyi
- Mark Price

## Agenda
- Welcome
- CICD Status
  - 3006.x : failing
  - 3007.x : failing
  - master : failing

- Releases:
  - 3006.23
  - 3008rc

- Noteable PRs:
  - BlackDuck
  - pythonet/powershell
    https://github.com/saltstack/salt/pull/68826

- Discussed Previously:
  - We have a job that runs weekly and verifies all urls on winrepo.
    We can start with those for the culling. We need to set it up to generate
    a github issue when the test fails. It currently doesn't notify when it
    fails.
  - Issues with Windows Update and cumulative updates.
  - Connection issues. Windows minions have gotten more sluggish over the last
    few releases.
    1. test.ping succeeds
    2. any other long running command such as state.apply or pkg.refresh_db
       fails saying "minion not connected" before the default 30 timeout
       (within 5 to 10 seconds)
    3. However, the minion does recieve the job and the job completes and
       the results are returned to the master. You can find it in the jobs list
    4. The problem is intermittent
    5. Similar issue in 3006.17
       https://github.com/saltstack/salt/pull/68031
       https://github.com/saltstack/salt/pull/68231
  - Secure boot certificate updates happening this year. Current certificates
    are expiring in June. This will affect the ability to update firmware.
    https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/event/windowsevents/ama-secure-boot---dec-2025/4472784

- Community Issues and Discussion
  - winrepo: Daffyd will start work on URL verification/cleaning

  - connection issue:
    - dns host name changes aren't picked up by Salt
    - master_alive_interval isn't set by default, nor does it work
    - It sets up a schedule and detects the master at that interval
    - uses the status module that doesn't work on Windows, it is gated by the
      __virtual__ function. master_alive_interval was causing the windows
      minion to reset at the interval instead of running the status.master
      function. It's not a service restart, just a reset
    - sometimes the minion would reset every second, possibly caused by problems
      with the scheduler
    - even on Linux minions, status.master never returns true. On Windows, the
      function is not available due to gating
    - could be related to an open iss with jobs.master:
      https://github.com/saltstack/salt/issues/66356
    - further investigation found that that is a win_status module with a master
      function for Windows. So the issue is the resetting... maybe

  - scheduler on Windows has issues. The scheduler should change the
    `_schedule.conf` in the minion.d directory when config options are set, such
    as the master_alive_interval. The scheduled jobs aren't being updated in that
    file. If it can't run a job, it keeps trying to run it. It can get to a point
    where it's trying to run a job every second. The scheduler gets bogged down.
    This behavior is observed on Windows.

  - Salt pkg manager (spm). Used for installing/using formulas. Code is over 7
    years old. It's not commonly used and many people prefer to use gitfs.
    Andrii wanted to use it so he could pull specific versions of his formulas.

  - using ai

  - log rotation on Windows

  - vcf Salt: Currently being used internally. Will eventually be exposed to
    users for their infra.

## TODO
- Twangboy: Ask about the master minion
- Twangboy: Talk to Daniel about building Arm Packages for Windows
- Twangboy: Investigate making powershell the default shell on Windows
- Twangboy:
  - Community maintainers need clear guidance on what we want them to do. If
    the maintainer has an hour to give to Salt, what should they do? We need a
    policy document with clear guidance.
- Twangboy:
  - lgpo_reg:
    - Need to create a module that will generate a state based on the contents
      of the Registry.pol file. This could/should be a salt extension

