# Windows Working Group Meeting
# Notes from 2026-02-19

## Attendees
- Shane Lee (@twangboy)
- Dafydd Jones
- son.vu
- Rob Robertson
- Tiago Francisco
- Mark Price
- Adam Ehlis

## Agenda
- Welcome
- CICD Status
  - 3006.x : passing
  - 3007.x : passing
  - master : passing

- Releases:
  - 3006.22 : this week
  - 3007.14 : this week
  - 3008rc  : early 2026

- Noteable PRs:
  - BlackDuck
  - lgpo_reg fixes
    https://github.com/saltstack/salt/pull/68652
    https://github.com/saltstack/salt/pull/68655

- Discussed Previously:
  - winrepo issue where you can have duplicate display names in the database
    The display name lookup is being overwritten by a 2nd software definition
    that shares a display name with the 1st definition
    thunderbird vs thunderbird_esr for example
  - We need to start deprecating packages in winrepo
    - Start with packages that have broken URLs
    - Then packages that haven't been modified in over 2 years.

- Community Issues and Discussion
  - We have a job that runs weekly and verifies all urls on winrepo.
    We can start with those for the culling. We need to set it up to generate
    a github issue when the test fails. It currently doesn't notify when it
    fails.
  - Issues with Windows Update and cumulative updates.
  - Connection issues. Windows minions have gotten more sluggish over the last
    few releases.
    1. test.ping succeeds
    2. any other long running command such as state.apply or pkg.refresh_db
       fails saying "minion not connected" before the default 30 timeout
       (within 5 to 10 seconds)
    3. However, the minion does recieve the job and the job completes and
       the results are returned to the master. You can find it in the jobs list
    4. The problem is intermittent
    5. Similar issue in 3006.17
       https://github.com/saltstack/salt/pull/68031
       https://github.com/saltstack/salt/pull/68231
  - Secure boot certificate updates happening this year. Current certificates
    are expiring in June. This will affect the ability to update firmware.
    https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/event/windowsevents/ama-secure-boot---dec-2025/4472784

## TODO
- Twangboy: Ask about the master minion
- Twangboy: Talk to Daniel about building Arm Packages for Windows
- Twangboy: Investigate making powershell the default shell on Windows
- Twangboy:
  - Community maintainers need clear guidance on what we want them to do. If
    the maintainer has an hour to give to Salt, what should they do? We need a
    policy document with clear guidance.
- Twangboy:
  - lgpo_reg:
    - Need to create a module that will generate a state based on the contents
      of the Registry.pol file. This could/should be a salt extension

