# Windows Working Group Meeting
# Notes from 2026-04-16

## Attendees
- Shane Lee (@twangboy)
- Dafydd Jones

## Agenda
- Welcome
- CICD Status
  - 3006.x : failing (was passing 2 days ago)
  - 3007.x : failing
  - master : passing

- Releases:
  - 3006.24
  - 3008rc

- Noteable PRs:

- Discussed Previously:
  - winrepo: Daffyd will start work on URL verification/cleaning

  - connection issue:
    - dns host name changes aren't picked up by Salt
    - master_alive_interval isn't set by default, nor does it work
    - It sets up a schedule and detects the master at that interval
    - uses the status module that doesn't work on Windows, it is gated by the
      __virtual__ function. master_alive_interval was causing the windows
      minion to reset at the interval instead of running the status.master
      function. It's not a service restart, just a reset
    - sometimes the minion would reset every second, possibly caused by problems
      with the scheduler
    - even on Linux minions, status.master never returns true. On Windows, the
      function is not available due to gating
    - could be related to an open iss with jobs.master:
      https://github.com/saltstack/salt/issues/66356
    - further investigation found that that is a win_status module with a master
      function for Windows. So the issue is the resetting... maybe

  - scheduler on Windows has issues. The scheduler should change the
    `_schedule.conf` in the minion.d directory when config options are set, such
    as the master_alive_interval. The scheduled jobs aren't being updated in that
    file. If it can't run a job, it keeps trying to run it. It can get to a point
    where it's trying to run a job every second. The scheduler gets bogged down.
    This behavior is observed on Windows.

  - Salt pkg manager (spm). Used for installing/using formulas. Code is over 7
    years old. It's not commonly used and many people prefer to use gitfs.
    Andrii wanted to use it so he could pull specific versions of his formulas.

  - using ai

  - log rotation on Windows

  - vcf Salt: Currently being used internally. Will eventually be exposed to
    users for their infra.

- Community Issues and Discussion

## TODO
- Twangboy: Ask about the master minion
- Twangboy: Talk to Daniel about building Arm Packages for Windows
- Twangboy: Investigate making powershell the default shell on Windows
- Twangboy:
  - Community maintainers need clear guidance on what we want them to do. If
    the maintainer has an hour to give to Salt, what should they do? We need a
    policy document with clear guidance.
- Twangboy:
  - lgpo_reg:
    - Need to create a module that will generate a state based on the contents
      of the Registry.pol file. This could/should be a salt extension

