# Windows Working Group Meeting
# Notes from 2026-01-15

## Attendees
- Shane Lee (@twangboy)
- Dafydd Jones
- Rob Robertson

## Agenda
- Welcome
- CICD Status
  - 3006.x : passing
  - 3007.x : failing
  - master : failing

- Releases:
  - 3006.19 : today
  - 3007.11 : today
  - 3008rc  : early 2026

- Noteable PRs:
  - BlackDuck

- Discussed Previously:
  - lgpo_reg: key names with `.` breaks it. The value is set, but the parsing
    of the return fails. (68192: salt/modules/lgpo_reg.py: line 215)
    https://github.com/saltstack/salt/pull/68192/changes#diff-098c873e283213e363bc479e02723cab4683b36c689323db0be1b725e52d8795R215
    States run with test=True... old states no longer return. These states
    worked fine before the above PR
    https://github.com/saltstack/salt/issues/68565
  - Changes made in winrepo-ng
  - Talked about community contributor access and some upcoming Broadcom policy
    concering Open Source Software (OSS)

- Community Issues and Discussion
  - winrepo issue where you can have duplicate display names in the database
    The display name lookup is being overwritten by a 2nd software definition
    that shares a display name with the 1st definition
    thunderbird vs thunderbird_esr for example
  - We need to start deprecating packages in winrepo
    - Start with packages that have broken URLs
    - Then packages that haven't been modified in over 2 years.

## TODO
- Twangboy: Ask about the master minion
- Twangboy: Talk to Daniel about building Arm Packages for Windows
- Twangboy: Investigate making powershell the default shell on Windows
- Twangboy:
  - Community maintainers need clear guidance on what we want them to do. If
    the maintainer has an hour to give to Salt, what should they do? We need a
    policy document with clear guidance.
- Twangboy:
  - lgpo_reg:
    - Need to create a module that will generate a state based on the contents
      of the Registry.pol file. This could/should be a salt extension
- Dafydd: Investigate pythonnet
  https://devblogs.microsoft.com/powershell/hosting-powershell-in-a-python-script/

